welcome to basics for beginners and
today this is going to be a really brief
lesson for a very important one I'm just
going to go over the string names you're
going to need to know their names of the
strings before you progress on to
anything else really just so everything
will make sense
and it's really easy to understand a
really easy thing to remember so for
standard tuning we're just going to look
at standard tuning for now you might
notice on some songs if you look at like
tablature or their sheet music
the some guitars some songs require you
to maybe have drop D tuning or E flat
never mind about that for now all that
means is it's simply each string is
tuned to a different key but today we're
going to look at standard tuning so for
each string I'm just going to run
through its name so the first string the
thickest one and the lowest one is the E
string
we should sound like that the next one
down is the a-string
d is the third G is the fourth
B is 250 and E again but this is the top
e it's the sixth and the reason why
these two strings the top and the bottom
are called the same is because they are
both in the key of E if you listen
they're opting their octaves of each
other well two octaves but they sound
the same
if you remember the first string here
number one is the e string one is e 2 is
a three is d fourth is g v is B 6 is a
again so e a d g b e and if you have a
guitar like this e a d g b e if you're
just if the pegs just run along its EAD
gb e so that's easy enough to remember
and once you've got two grasps with that
you will be able to start with looking
at how to play songs and reading tab
music and it will really get you started
with playing guitar so I hope you found
this helpful
thank you for watching if you have any
comments please leave them below and I
will see you soon bye